But when , sitting in the local tavern , you announce your plan to explore the swamp , the listeners are dumbfounded .
They cluster around you , pushing back the battered benches to make room .
The swamp , they tell you , holds the bones of many such as you !
Not only is it trackless and infested with vermin , monsters and starving bandits , but a group of wizards calling themselves the Masters have recently claimed Scorpion Swamp for their own .
One of them - a big , burly man escorted by two great grey wolves - visited this very tavern last week .
He did n't say much , they tell you , but he did n't seem the sort to welcome trespassers on his property !
When you enter the little town of Fenmarge , no one finds you remarkable .
Many travellers pass through here .
Your sturdy helmet and sharp sword indicate you are a fighter not to be trifled with , but this is not uncommon .
You return to Selator 's hut .
A merry fire is crackling in the kitchen , and something is cooking that smells delicious .
He greets you warmly and asks , 'Have you got the berry ? '
If you have got the purple berry of the Antherica plant , turn to 175 .
If not , turn to 52 .
As you walk west , the swamp becomes even grimmer .
Just as you think that you can stand it no longer , the path begins to widen , and you find yourself in a long , narrow opening .
This is Clearing 6 .
If you have been here before , turn to 210 .
If you have not been here before , keep reading .
You look around and see no other paths ; you appear to have come to a dead end .
You walk towards a large grey boulder , hoping to rest on it for a minute .
Suddenly , the boulder moves !
You are not looking at grey stone at all , but coarse grey hair .
Red eyes glare at you , and a DIRE BEAST with six clawed legs moves towards you .
Gronar tells you to seek out Poomchukker in the village market .
As soon as you enter the tangle of streets and shops , you are lost .
You ask for directions several times , and eventually a group of laughing young boys escorts you to a large house on the edge of the market .
As you walk along , you sense that you are far to the east of the point where you entered the swamp .
You wonder if you have taken the right paths .
Suddenly , you step into a grassy glade .
This is Clearing 21 .
If you have been here before , turn to 364 .
If not , keep reading .
There is a crystalline pool in the middle of the clearing , with an inviting sandy beach to one side .
There are no other paths leading out .
You control your fear and approach the gloomy tower .
Bats circle around the upper storey .
As you step towards the great iron door , you see a hideous face sculpted on it .
Then the door swings open before you !
Grimslade stands waiting .
He is tall and skeletally thin .
The crimson designs on his black robe seem to glow .
He greets you pleasantly , but your ring , hot on your finger , continues to warn you that you are in the presence of evil .
'I know all about you , ' he says .
'You want to explore the swamp .
That meddling fool Gronar sent you here .
But what makes you think you are worthy of my time ?
I need a hero who is afraid of nothing . '
You make your way across the fields and along the winding roads , towards the village market-place .
There stands the house of Poomchukker , just as you left it .
You knock on the door , and the Goblin girl admits you .
She takes you to Poomchukker 's library .
There he sits , swathed in a silken robe .
You enter a rather pleasant glade surrounded by gnarled oaks .
You are in Clearing 9 .
If you have been here before , turn to 192 .
If you have not been here before , keep on reading .
Leaning against a tree , eating lunch , is a small , cheerful man in dark clothes .
His food is in a picnic basket .
He has no visible weapons , except for the knife with which he is cutting his cheese .
He notices you standing there and hails you .
The Bent Spear is a pleasant , roomy inn .
You pay the innkeeper a Gold Piece and go to your room .
As soon as your head hits the pillow , you fall asleep .
You use your Ice spell to form a bridge across the river .
But the river is very wide and warm , so the bridge is very slender !
You have crossed several shallow streams , but now you are faced with a deeper one .
This is Clearing 34 .
You see movement in the water below , and you are not sure that you care to wade across .
The path leads you northward , and gradually upward .
The ground around you is somewhat drier now , and the swamp trees have been replaced by deep forest .
The trees thin out ahead of you , and you see a large clearing dotted with low bushes .
This is Clearing 11 .
If you have been here before , turn to 108 .
If you have not been here before , keep on reading .
You stop and listen , but hear nothing .
You step out into the clearing to search for more paths , suddenly you realize that you are being watched by two huge WOLVES .
The villagers shake their heads as you turn towards the door , but make no further attempts to dissuade you .
But , before you reach the door , a villager blocks your path .
He is a short , middle-aged fellow with a black beard cut square across the bottom .
At first you take him for a farmer , but he seems more interested in you than any farmer should be !
He takes your arm and leads you to a table in the corner of the tavern .
The others have gone back to their chatting , and you find yourself willing to hear what this quiet man will say to you .
He introduces himself as Gronar .
You do your best to ignore the noise of the roisterers carousing below , but it gets worse .
Long after midnight , you fall into a fitful sleep , but you are awakened early the next morning by the sounds of a market-place outside your window .
Angrily , you collect your belongings and stalk southward out of town , towards the swamp .
Ahead of you there is an opening in the trees .
You investigate .
You are in Clearing 35 .
You can see the wide Foulbrood River , running east and west .
A great stone bridge crosses the river .
It looks totally Deserted .
You notice that your path is criss-crossed by spiderwebs .
There is a clearing ahead .
Even before you enter it , you can see that the surrounding trees are thickly festooned with webs , and that there are many spiders there .
You are in Clearing 17 .
If you have been here before , turn to 345 .
If you have not been here before , keep reading .
In the centre of the clearing there is a sumptuous pavilion , which seems to float above the marshy ground .
It is silver-grey and it shimmers like woven spider-silk .
Seated in the pavilion is a tall man .
His thick beard and eyebrows are white , and his robe is as silver-grey as his tent .
Around his neck hangs a gleaming silver Spider Amulet As you walk along , the ground becomes rocky and the path slopes upwards .
Instead of dismal trees , you see the sky ahead of you !
You emerge on top of a high cliff overlooking the murky Foulbrood River .
You are in Clearing 20 .
It is at least twenty metres down to the river , and the cliff is too steep for you to climb down .
Below , you can see huge crocodiles sunning themselves in the water .
Far to the east you can see a bridge which appears to cross the river , but no trail leads along the riverbank in that direction .
Two trails leave the clearing .
The eastward path is well tended ; the trees and bushes do not grow across the trail , but are trimmed back .
Before long you reach a pleasant clearing .
You are in Clearing 27 .
If you have been here before , turn to 238 .
If you have not been here before , keep reading .
Everywhere different sorts of plants are growing .
.
.
some are flowering , and they all look healthy and attractive .
The entire glade looks too beautiful to be natural , and too natural to be a garden .
As you look around , a middle-aged man approaches you .
He is tall and broad-shouldered , and he wears work-stained clothes .
The river is warm , and you see your chunk of ice melting away beneath you .
All too soon it falls apart .
You grab your sword and swim desperately for the river-bank , but your gear is too heavy .
You sink to the bottom , choking on the river slime .
Your adventure is over .
You are in a particularly marshy area .
The ground squishes under your feet .
The path bends slightly and runs alongside a large pool .
You can see that there is one other exit from this clearing .
You are in Clearing 28 .
If you have been here before , turn to 137 .
If you have not been here before , keep reading .
The surface of the pool ripples nastily , and green slime coats the water .
You would never drink out of this pool , you are sure !
Suddenly the scum on top of the pool seems to pull together .
To your amazement , it heaves itself out of the water and on to the path , blocking your way .
As the bridge breaks up , you climb on to the largest piece you can find .
It forms a sort of boat on which you float eastward down the river .
Both banks are covered by thick jungle .
Then , ahead of you , you see a huge , old bridge made of stone !
You decide to go to the closest - the Black Bear .
There are many convivial folk in the tavern downstairs , but you pay the innkeeper a gold piece and go straight up to your room .
But you can not sleep because of the noise from the merry-makers below .
Lose 1 stamina point .
You walk into a village and notice a lot of activity .
The villagers are bringing in their sacks of grain and rice and stacking them in a central store .
They eye you with suspicion but let you pass .
You head for an inn and sit down on a bench outside the building and rest ( add 4 points to your stamina ) .
A little girl skips past you with a bag of rice .
Suddenly , the bag breaks and all the rice spills on to the ground .
She begins to cry that she 's already late for school and gets down on her knees to pick up the grains .
The Elves congregate in a huge stone stadium encircling a smooth green field .
Cloris the Elf-maiden explains the rules .
'The team is made up of five men and women .
Two teams compete to carry a circular rock across the opposing team 's territory .
Each player plays individually against his or her opponent .
The player must move twelve paces four times ( forty-eight paces ) while the opponent tries to stop him or her with body blows . '
You poke your sword into the stream and find a very good ford ; it 's quite shallow and easy to cross without getting too wet .
You cross the stream .
The camp-fire is very close to the edge of the forest .
You hear a distant noise to the left and see a flame rising into the sky .
It has the distinct shape of a fist .
The clamour of the excited spectators gradually fades behind you as you venture deep into the gloom of the cavern tunnel .
Winters in northern Allansia are always cruel and bitter .
The snow falls thick and the icy wind blows hard , chilling everybody to the bone .
For the past few weeks you have been hired by a merchant called Big Jim Sun to protect his trading caravans as they roll their way slowly north to the frozen outposts .
The horse-drawn carts are laden with cloth , utensils , weapons , salted meats , spices and tea , which are traded for furs and ivory carvings made from mammoths ' tusks .
Big Jim is not usually worried about travelling north , as bandits only attack his caravans on the return journey - he is not alone in recognizing the value of the northern goods .
You set off straight away towards the outpost at the base of Icefinger Mountains .
You arrive two hours later at a scene of ugly carnage .
The snow is red with blood and all the wooden hutsare smashed and torn down .
Six men lie dead , their bodies slashed , their axes at their sides in the snow .
Judging by the size of the footprints , the creature that attacked the outpost must have been enormous .
There is nothing you can do for the unfortunate Northmen , so you head back towards Big Jim 's caravan to report the news .
You reach them in an hour , just as the daylight is fading , and relate the terrible events that have befallen the outpost .
Big Jim orders the carts to be drawn into a circle to protect his men during the night .
A large fire is built into the centre of the circle and you sit down beside it to talk to Big Jim .
Everybody is nervous and a guard is posted to watch for signs of movement outside .
By mid-morning Stubb has become quite excited , knowing that he will soon be home .
Seconds later , the thought of his dead friend Morri depresses him and he shakes his fist at the unseen Hill Trolls .
An hour later you see distant wisps of smoke rising into the sky .
'Stonebridge ! '
yells Stubb .
You climb into the boat and push off from the bank .
You are about half-way across the river when you hear someone shouting angrily behind you .
After burying your elfin friend in a leafy glade , you set off as quickly as you can towards the Moonstone Hills .
But you are weak and can not walk very fast .
It takes half an hour of hard walking to reach the end of the crevasse .
You are now able to climb further up the mountain .
The steep climb and the swirling snow combine to make the going slow .
As you approach the fire , you smell the delicious aroma of a duck being roasted .
You draw your sword and walk warily forward .
Suddenly a sinewy man with long hair and a beard jumps out from behind a rock , screaming at the top of his voice .
He is wearing animal furs and carrying a stone club which he raises to attack you .
Lying between the stunted bushes , you listen to the noise of the thundering hooves growing louder .
Bending back a branch , you see four CENTAURS gallop by , each armed with a bow and a quiver of arrows .
You lie quite still until the sound of their hooves fades .
Your journey south is long and arduous , but yout determination to leave Icefinger Mountains behind you spurs you on .
Two days after leaving the ice caverns , you reach the River Kok .
Fifty miles upriver lies Fang , the town where Baron Sukumvit 's notorious Deathtrap Dungeon awaits its challengers each year for the Trial of Champions .
However , at this time of year Fang is unlikely to be more interesting than any other river town .
You decide against going there and walk downriver to find a bridge or a boatman .
Through the trees to your left , you see a tall man with pointed ears and fair hair .
He is wearing a green cloak and he is busy carving arrow shafts with his knife The fire is soon roaring and crackling in the hearth .
The heat of the flames radiates through your body and you revel in the warmth .
The stew is delicious and you feel your strength returning .
Add 3 stamina points .
With renewed energy , you decide to leave the hut to continue your quest To your left , you see a narrow footpath leading from the bank of the river into the trees Further along the bank you find a small wooden boat tied to a tree .
You look around but you can not see its owner .
Ash is strong enough to keep hold of the rope bridge with one hand and to grab you with his other hand to stop you from being swept away downstream .
He manages to drag you up on to the far bank , but the ordeal costs you 1 stamina point .
Without waiting for you to recover , he urges you to follow him along the footpath which leads up the side of the hill away from the bridge The footpath twists and turns through the trees before ending outside a wooden hut .
You creep up to the hut and look through the window .
An old man wearing purple robes and a grey skull cap is asleep in an ornately carved rocking-chair .
The shelves on the wall behind him are lined with jars of herbs and berries .
Underneath an overhanging rock , you see a small wooden hut built against the side of the mountain .
Its roof is piled high with snow and long icicles hang down from the window ledges .
You see a set of deep footprints leading from the hut up the side of the mountain .
The thundering noise of galloping hooves grows louder and four CENTAURS come into view .
Each one is armed with a bow and quiver of arrows .
They stop almost at once in a line before you , keen-eyed and ready for any move on your part .
Their leader is obviously the one with the ugly blue scar running down his face and chest , as he is also proudly carrying a spear and a shield , and wearing a horned Helmet .
You spot a small open space between the rocks and trees on the far bank of the river .
Something is cooking over a fire , you can see the smoke rising ; but there is no one to be seen - perhaps they saw you first and are hiding .
The river runs fast and is quite narrow at this point .
Large rocks jut out of the river and it would be possible to cross over by leaping from rock to rock .
The red leaves all around you emit a sweet smell which you find very pleasant .
You feel very relaxed and suddenly have trouble keeping your eyes open , even though it is only early evening .
You are unaware that you are lying on SLEEPING GRASS .
You sink into a deep sleep , full of vivid and exciting dreams .
Night falls and time passes by , but you can not wake up .
The moon drifts slowly across the clear night sky until dawn is only minutes away .
You just manage to scramble up on to the far bank as the bridge crashes down into the river .
Ash urges you to follow him as quickly as possible along the footpath , which leads up the side of the hill away from the bridge Ash is strong enough to keep hold of the rope bridge , but he can not reach you .
You are thrown into the water and swept away downstream .
You are too weak to survive the white-water rapids , and your adventure ends here .
You hurriedly cut blocks of ice out of the mountainside and build a makeshift igloo .
You crawl into it as the blizzard blows down the mountain with ferocious power .
Your body-heat is retained inside the igloo and you keep warm .
However , you must eat two portions of your Provisions to regain your strength after the tiring walk and the effort of building the igloo ( this does not increase your stamina ) .
As you approach the sarcophagus , a woman 's eerie laughter echoes round the chamber .
A beautiful woman wearing white fur slowly rises out of the sarcophagus , and when she smiles you see the tell-tale fangs and realize with horror that the SNOW WITCH is a vampire !
Fortunately it is not your sword-arm which is affected by frostbite , but nevertheless the blizzard has taken its toll .
As you walk along the edge of the crevasse , the wind starts to howl , blowing flurries of snow into your face .
You put your head down and stride into the wind .
A dark shape suddenly looms out of the curtain of snow - a huge hairy MAMMOTH stands before you , its long tusks curving out threateningly .
Trumpeting loudly , it lumbers forward to attack .
The snow is beginning to fall very heavily , swirling around in the strong wind .
A blizzard is starting .
Once again the current drags you under the surface of the water .
This time the weight of the gold in your backpack keeps you under , because you are too weak to swim .
Your adventure ends here .
You make your way slowly up the mountain until you reach a rock face that is too steep to climb .
You walk round the side until you see a massive wall of ice which completely blocks a gully between two peaks of the mountain - the glacier .
Your heart leaps as you catch sight of the piece of fur left hanging on the wall of ice by the trapper .
Although you can not see the entrance , you walk straight ahead .
You shut your eyes as you think you are about to walk into the wall of ice , but you walk straight through the illusion and find yourself inside a long tunnel carved into the ice .
You walk down it and soon arrive at a T-junction .
You awake at sunrise .
After dressing , you breakfast on bread and goat 's milk and collect your belongings .
Outside , the Outpost Settlement is stirring : the womenfolk emerge to wash and prepare their meals as the day 's guard takes over .
Eyes follow you as you leave your hut and walk towards the Shamutanti Wall .
The frontiers people are well aware of your mission and a small crowd of well-wishers follows some distance behind you .
Satisfied that your preparations are complete , you nod to the Sightmaster Sergeant .
For the last time he glances at the lookout atop the gate , who signals the all-clear .
The Sergeant orders the bolt to be withdrawn .
A doorway opens up in front of you and you get your first view of the Shamutanti foothills , the first stage of your journey .
As you tread carefully along the passage , dust falls from the low ceiling .
Precarious wooden beams hold the walls back and you stumble and curse as your foot strikes one of the beams .
Suddenly a pile of rubble falls from the ceiling in front of you and a cracking of wood stops you cold .
The roof is collapsing !
You settle down and relax on the bed .
Outside the inn there is a commotion and you spring up as several Svinns burst into your room and surround you .
Before you can react , two grasp your hands and you are marched from the inn to a hut at the edge of the village .
You follow a path leading sharply downhill into a narrow valley .
You cross a stream on a wooden bridge and start to climb the next hill .
Half-way up , you hear twigs break in the undergrowth and suddenly a large creature - about the size of a bear - stands before you .
It has black and white fur , and a long bushy tail which trails out behind it .
This animal bars your way and is snarling menacingly at you .
Outside the village you climb up into the woods .
You find a suitable sheltered spot not far from another path .
You sit down and eat and admire the fine view of the surrounding hillside .
If this is your first meal today , add 2 stamina points .
If you have already eaten since leaving Analand , add only 1 stamina point .
The path winds up and over the hill and you stop and marvel at a grassy verge in which are growing some of the most beautiful and delicate flowers you have ever seen .
You find a quiet place to rest outside the village .
Away from the bustle of the festival of youth you are able to get a good night 's sleep .
The Mimmite curls up near you .
You may eat provisions before you go to sleep and add 2 stamina points ( 1 point if you have already eaten ) .
Dark clouds rumble in low over the camp .
When they are directly overhead they release a torrential downpour which douses the fire and cools your bath .
Your bindings slide loose and you are able to scramble from the pot .
Libra has not ignored you !
The Head Hunters , sensing something supernatural , have scattered into the woods and you are now free to escape .
But you may not call on Libra again in this part of your adventure to help you .
Not until you reach the city of Khare will she listen to you .
You walk into the village .
Young Hill Dwellers pass you and stare at your strange clothes .
Their own attire is rough by comparison and everyone wears their hair long , but piled up on their heads .
You pass without incident into the centre of the village .
You press on through the grass and , after half an hour or so , you reach the river-bank , well upstream of the village you were avoiding .
You notice that your backpack feels lighter than normal and you take it off to examine it .
Looking inside , you find that you have lost two items of equipment !
You walk up to the fire in the centre of the village and call out loudly .
There is no response .
As you wait for some sign of life you begin to feel dizzy .
Too late , you realize that the fumes from the fire are overpowering you !
You fight to keep consciousness , but without success , and you slump to the ground You may rest if you wish to eat Provisions ( if you have any ) before your all-night trek .
If you take a meal , you may add 2 stamina points if you have not already eaten today but only 1 stamina point if you have eaten anything .
Then you set off .
You soon leave the woods following an uphill path and you pause again at daybreak to get your bearings .
You must lose 2 stamina points for travelling all night without sleep .
You travel downhill along the valley for an hour , but then the path turns uphill again .
The hill you are now climbing is not too steep and as noon approaches you are again on a descending path .
You may stop and eat Provisions if you wish and may add 2 stamina points if you do .
Further along the path in the afternoon , Jann - who has been chattering incessantly to you - warns you to stop .
You are being watched .
As you are now in a wood , you proceed cautiously .
Suddenly the bushes part and a figure steps forward .
Dressed in black , this tall man bars your way .
You follow the path for the rest of the afternoon until you stand on a hilltop .
The path runs down the hill into a small village set on a river and you follow it down .
The noise outside eventually subsides as darkness spreads over the village .
You have a good night 's sleep .
No one in the history of the Shamutanti Hills has found a way of escaping the Demon 's Deluge and you are not likely to be the first .
You are still trying desperately to think of a way out as the air leaves the cave and your lungs fill with water .
.
.
The smell gets sweeter as you pass on through the fields of Black Lotus flowers .
You feel light-headed as you continue and you start to skip and jump with merriment .
Jann , still on your shoulder , is likewise full of glee .
Your head swims .
Before you can stop yourself , you are feeling dizzy and falling to the ground .
You fall into the flowers on to something hard .
A surge of horror passes through you as you realize it is a skeleton !
But the horror is short-lived as you lose consciousness .
The sweet aroma of the Black Lotus is a deadly poison and you have breathed your last .
You will rest for ever in the fields of the black death .
.
.
You find a suitable shelter in the rocks on the bank of the stream and bed down for the night .
If you have not eaten since you left the Outpost Settlement , you may take some Provisions if you have any and add 2 stamina points .
If you have already eaten , you will gain only 1 stamina point from the food .
Eventually you drift off to sleep , soothed by the babbling of the stream .
You enter the village cautiously , creeping round the huts , but the place appears to be deserted .
A fire burns in the centre of the camp in a pit and a pile of logs stands near by .
The inn is not cheap .
A bed for the night is 5 Gold Pieces and a meal is 4 .
If you eat , pay the price and add 2 stamina points Surprisingly enough , although you can still feel the force on your arm , it does not hamper your progress and you can make your way onwards .
In fact , the going seems to be easier , as if you are being led by some invisible guide who is coaxing you along the best route .
Eventually , the going gets easier as the dense undergrowth thins and you are soon walking through a prairie with grass up to your waist .
As you leave the heavy foliage , the grip on your arm is released .
You emerge from the woods on to a river-bank .
The path leads over a rough wooden bridge and along the bank .
The going is easy through the grass .
You happen across a parting where it seems someone has been before , making a trail which is heading in the general direction you wish to continue .
Further along the way you come across a couple of merchants ' huts and you browse through the items for sale .
If you wish , and if you can afford it , you may buy any of the following items : You find a suitable spot in the woods to make your camp .
You settle down and sleep , but there is a chance that you may be discovered by night creatures who will disturb your rest .
There seems to be a good deal of merriment in the village .
'It is the festival of the young , ' whispers Jann .
'Once a year the children are allowed the freedom of the village .
It is a time of great fun and pranks . '
A number of children sit in the street ahead , drinking ale .
A little too much , it seems , as they are laughing loudly .
Ahead a young boy holds an old woman over his knee and is spanking her .
A group of boys is fighting outside a hut with a sign which reads : 'Glandragor 's Tavern ' , A group of girls is standing at a signpost pointing to the 'Crystal Waterfall ' , tripping up their elders as they pass and giggling to each other .
The little men carry you off and you soon arrive at the Head Hunter camp .
There is much commotion as you are led into the centre of the settlement .
Several natives rush off to fill a large pot with water to be heated over a fire - the implications of which you do not relish !
Meanwhile , you are put into a bamboo cage , guarded by a strong warrior .
'You can not escape the Spirit of Mananka ! '
cries the face .
'And your mission is cursed ! '
You watch as the smoke contracts and disappears back inside the box .
You wonder at the Spirit 's curse , but there is little you can do .
Until you find some way of ridding yourself of this curse , your stamina has been weakened .
Each time you lose stamina points for any reason except casting spells , you must lose 1 extra stamina point .
You may search for some means of ridding yourself of the Spirit 's curse for , until you do , you are more vulnerable to dangers .
You may now leave the hut and continue your journey onwards .
You leave Kristatanti along a path which snakes out into the hills .
All morning you follow it as it twists through the woods of gnarled trees until eventually you reach a clearing where another path joins from the east .
A signpost at the junction indicates straight on to Dhumpus and westwards to Alianna .
The driver is a cheerful fellow and prefers company to travelling alone .
You may add 1 luck point for getting this lift .
You travel for most of the morning at a pace not much faster than you could walk until he finally reaches a field where he is collecting vegetables .
You continue along the path , leaving the village behind .
About half an hour later , you reach the start of the climb into the hills and continue upwards .
Five minutes later , you reach a fork offering you two ways onwards .
You travel along the path for some time .
Passing out of a shrubby woodland a pleasant smell hits your nostrils .
Off to the right is a field of beautiful black flowers .
The path through the field leads on over the brow of the hill into a valley below .
Jann believes this is the quickest path to Torrepani , the next village on your route .
You continue through the bush until you reach a point where the undergrowth thins and becomes a waist-high grassland .
The passage continues until you reach a large stone-cut door blocking your progress .
The strange carvings are in a familiar language , but the quality of the shaft and head indicate that the axe is well used and may not last many more battles .
The merchant wants 7 Gold Pieces for the weapon .
You may pay his price and take the axe , or you may bargain .
You emerge carefully from the cave , trying not to be spotted by wandering Goblins .
The tea is refreshing and you may add 1 stamina point .
Also add 1 luck point for making the right choice .
You notice that the woman is cursing and her actions are becoming slower .
She creeps slowly off into the kitchen and you see her gulping down another drink .
Then she comes back and questions you about your journey .
She is particularly interested in knowing whether you came across an old man .
The gentle upward slope becomes a steep climb and you must rest several times during the morning .
Finally you reach the top and can look over the hill to see that the path leads into a small settlement of crudely made huts .
You follow the path down and into the village .
As you arrive , the villagers notice you and make for their huts , almost as if in fear .
They are a sorry-looking bunch , short and squat with tough , leathery skin .
Several of them are missing limbs and some are only able to drag themselves along with their hands .
You continue on your way and approach a rope bridge strung precariously between two boulders .
You press on through the wood and soon come across another path which crosses it .
You follow this path northwards until you come to a junction .
A signpost at the junction points westwards to Alianna and straight on to Dhumpus .
The path winds upwards into the hills and you enter a wood .
The afternoon sun glints through the trees , playing tricks on your eyes .
Every so often you catch a glimpse of some strange-shaped animal or other watching you , only to find that it is the silhouetted branches and leaves caught at an odd angle .
Inside , the hut has no furniture .
A small fire burns in the middle of the floor and against the far wall stands a family of three , cowering away from you .
Further along the path , you come across another object , this time a locket containing a small portrait of a woman , obviously pilfered from a previous traveller unaware of the grass 's habits .
You may take this with you .
Eventually you reach the river-bank again , well past the village .
The meal is just being served .
If you wish to sit down to eat , pay the 2 Gold Pieces and have your bowl of Skunkbear stew .
You may add 3 stamina points if you eat .
You will not be able to eat your own Provisions at the inn .
If you wish to rest for the night , pay the 3 Gold Pieces .
The bed you are given is not particularly clean , but is comfortable and you may add 5 stamina points for a good night 's rest .
The path winds alongside a bubbling stream and you follow it onwards along the west bank .
The valley you are in becomes narrower , but you soon come across a flat , grassy bank where you may stop and eat Provisions You may try to kill all the snakes in the pit with your weapon .
forest Your relief is somewhat premature , however , as you discover when you take your next step forward .
Your foot triggers a release mechanism and three saplings snap up in front of you .
Each is fitted with sharpened stakes which whip towards you at heart level .
You are impaled on this fiendish device and your journey has ended here .
Your head will soon join the others on the posts you have just passed You pick a clearing where you may open your backpack and get out your Provisions .
Your ears arc peeled to the sounds around you and you are startled when a flock of Wood gulls fly up into the air near by .
You describe the old man you encountered and her eyes light up .
She asks whether you stole from him a page from a Spell Book and is overjoyed as you pull the page from your pack .
Giggling with glee , she snatches it from you .
You continue along a riverside path for several hours until you reach a wide bend .
In the elbow of the bend ahead you can see a cluster of huts made out of thatched branches and twigs .
A fire in the centre of the huts wafts smoke into the air , but not a sound comes from the Village .
The climb continues for two or three hours as the path twists this way and that up the hillside .
Soon the air gets cold and the sun sets , making it difficult for you to see .
However , the moon is full and will be able to light the way as it gets darker .
Some way down the hill you stop for a rest .
You sit on a boulder to survey what lies ahead .
The path leads downwards into a vale .
Cradled between three hills is a village - and quite a large one at that .
The sun is falling rapidly and you decide to head downwards towards this settlement .
An overhanging branch touches your face and you hear a lively chirping .
Hovering by your shoulder is a small creature the size of your thumb .
he gate is open , but you are wary of continuing .
This is no normal gate : it stands two or three times the size of any you have seen before .
But the only way on is through it , so you continue - though carefully .
You continue up the hill .
The climb is steep , but by mid -afternoon you have reached the top .
Continuing over the hill , you travel down a gentle slope for the rest of the afternoon .
As the second day of your journey breaks , you march through the cool morning air of the hills , having now climbed several hundred feet You .
reach the brow of a hill and stop in your tracks .
To your left is a clearing in which several poles are firmly planted in the ground .
Atop the poles are heads - some recently fixed , some semi-decayed - human heads , Goblin heads , and one or two heads of creatures you do not recognize , all with sewn-up eyes and mouths .
A large X painted on a broad tree is obviously intended as a warning to venture no further .
Ahead the path forks to the right and left , but you can not be sure which path you are warned not to take !
You race off into the woods in case the commotion attracts any other creatures .
For half an hour you run before you stop to rest , when you realize that you are now hopelessly lost .
Which direction will you Take ?
The inn offers hot meals for sale and if you wish to stop and eat the charge will be 1 Gold Piece .
Bread and goat 's cheese are also available if you wish to buy food to take with you , and the price of two meals worth is 2 Gold Pieces .
You are forced upwards against the ceiling as the water level rises But Libra has not deserted you and an air pocket forms around your head As you thrash about in the water , you are able to breathe easily and soon you relax , knowing you are safe .
After several minutes the water drams off , leaving you on the ground unharmed , although somewhat damp .
The sealing wall disappears into the floor and you return to the large chamber to choose another passage .
Exhausted from the battle , you examine the Giant and its domain as you recover your breath .
A pouch around its waist contains 8 Goid Pieces .
You may also take any part of the creature that you think may be useful .
A large loaf in the cave is too large for you to carry , but you may eat from it if you wish You find an ale-house and walk in .
Gruff voices come from inside but , when you enter , the drinkers watch you suspiciously and the noise subsides .
Several Hill Dwellers sit around a table .
The owner of the house tells you that you are in the village of Kristatanti and that a mug of ale will cost you 1 Gold Piece Now screaming at you , she calls loudly into the air .
A cracking to your left makes you wheel round , just in time to see a tree swaying as its trunk splits and it falls towards you .
You approach a group of Svinns deep in conversation and take a seat with them .
They are discussing a friend , apparently killed in the night by an assassin 's blade .
Gradually you work your way into the conversation and you soon learn the reason for the depression which hangs over the village .
The village chief 's daughter has been captured by a band of marauders and offered as a sacrifice to a powerful cave demon .
According to an ancient prophecy , a dreadful scourge will overrun the village if the chief 's line ever ends - and his daughter is the chiefs only heir .
You settle down to make camp for the night .
You may take Provisions here and , if you do so , you may add 2 stamina points if you have not yet eaten since leaving Analand , or 1 stamina point if you have already eaten on your journey .
You may only eat if you have Provisions with you .
As you curl up in your blanket to sleep , there is a chance that you may encounter a wandering night creature .
As you try desperately to make your spell work , the creature pounces .
Its huge weight lands on you and its claws rip your clothes .
That deadly sting comes over at you , but you are powerless to defend yourself .
It pierces your chest .
Shortly the poison will take effect .
You have failed in your mission .
.
.
Deduct 4 stamina points .
You cast the spell and point at the first Goblin .
A streak of lightning shoots from your finger and catches the creature square in the chest , killing it instantly .
The other two stop in their tracks , deciding whether to continue the attack .
You leave the Manticore 's chamber and follow the path to the source of the light .
As you had hoped , a cave entrance allows you out on to the side of the hill .
You and the Svinn girl find your way back to Torrepani .
The Svinn chief is overjoyed to have his daughter back and the village erupts into celebration as their curse is now lifted .
You arc given the freedom of the village and decide to stay for the day to recuperate .
You visit the Svinn healing-priest who will treat your wounds , cure any diseases and lift curses which you may have .
Restore your skill , stamina and luck points to their Initial values .
The priest may also rid you of the annoying little Minimite if he is still with you You sleep heavily that night and rise the next morning to continue on your way .
You are taken to the deepest part of the Citadel .
Captain Laski and two soldiers march in front of you and the twelve Wizards shuffle along behind you Astragal looks at you , shakes your hand warmly and wishes you good luck .
He then stands back with the others .
You walk into a village and notice a lot of activity .
The villagers are bringing in their sacks of grain and rice and stacking them in a central store They eye you with suspicion but let you pass .
You enter the trading-post .
It is full of strange , exotic goods .
A Dwarf is keeping busy but is all the while being reproached by a hunchback who seems to be the owner .
You look at a large counter with labels explaining the Gem and Crystal to Gold Coin exchange rate .
Suddenly a large tubular creature bursts out of the ground .
You find yourself surrounded by it .
It is yellow , covered with thick blue veins and , from the rim , it exudes a thick green slime that drops down on to you .
A tiny drop touches your little finger and you watch in agony as it strips the flesh away in Seconds The track takes you into the forest .
You proceed carefully .
Eventually , you find that the path forks and on a tree stump is carved a figure holding a shield pointing west and a dagger pointing south-east .
Do you have any clue to the correct path to Take You decide to head for the difficult ground .
It 's very hard going and you have to climb steep rock-faces but you think it might be safer .
Suddenly , on the edge of a deep chasm , a flat rock flips over .
The riders are dressed in black , military capes .
They are from a regular cavalry regiment in Ostragoth 's -army , They trot in circles around you .
You can not run off without raising suspicion .
They look at you ; then at the man , then they consult a rolled-up parchment .
One of them dismounts and walks over to you , 'You , you 're under arrest ! '
You pull out your sword , You scamper up the tree , then leap across three other trees .
You have heard tales of the legendary Sniffer Ores , so you do your best to hide your scent .
Just then , six wolves appear and make for the tree you originally climbed .
They are silent and sit in a circle around the thick trunk , until a squad of Ores arrives .
The Ores search the tree and when they find no trace they scream at the dumb animals , 'Stupid beasts , you 'll be tonight 's hot-pot if you do n't do better than this ' They do not see you , hugging a thick branch just four trees away .
When they leave , you climb to the very top of the tree and spy out the land .
The sandy coast is very close .
You get off your horse and let the first Ore take the reins .
He trots off with it .
The second Ore then swears at you , 'Knucler scum , stealing our booty .
I 'll teach you .
. '
He hits you with a whip across the face then rides away .
Your face is cut and stings terribly .
You suspect that the Ore has soaked the whip in poison .
The boat takes you to the north side of the island and is then swept about by the crashing waves .
You have no hope of steering and realize that there are sharp rocks just below the surface of the water .
Suddenly a wave lifts you up and hurls you into a group of fang-like rocks You reach a stretch of beach that has obviouslv been tampered with by the besieging army .
Ahead , you find some sprung traps .
You peer into one and see The remains of several Zamarran foot-soldiers .
They are all impaled on sharp metal spikes .
You suddenly realize that there must be other traps here .
You try to retrace your steps but there are so many footprints that you do not know which are yours .
The surge loses its power a long way up-river .
You swim towards the shore and notice the glow of the Bracelet You pull out your sword and stride across the bridge .
When you are exactly in the middle , it collapses under you , then folds up magically into a wooden cage .
You hear the sound of laughter as you plunge into the cold water You black out .
You get to the island , and land the boat in a small harbour .
You look around : the island is also being used for mast repairs , food preparation , and the construction of siege weapons .
Most of the work is being carried out by chain-gangs .
You have no other option but to scramble down the other side of the mountain while you are being attacked by the Dragonmen .
Reduce your skill by 1 point for this combat only .
Fight each in turn .
You hide the grim remains of the fight , wipe your blade and look around for the Dwarf but see no sign of him .
You return and tell a Goblin guard that the Dwarf has escaped and that others are giving chase .
A Dark Elf , sitting in the shade of a great oak , yawns and speaks up .
'It 's always the same , no one 's ever escaped from here .
They 'll get him . '
You stand on guard , wondering how to get away when you spy a strange , bald man who could be a monk .
He wields an axe with unnatural power : three strikes and a tree crashes to the ground .
You move over to get a better view and he speaks to you .
'Stranger , I know your secret .
Come into that clump of bushes .
I wish to talk . '
You walk across the grassy plain for many hours .
You notice the Bracelet on your wrist glowing ( mark a captured Citadel Wall on the Adventure Sheet ) .
There is no one around but occasionally you catch sight of groups of wild horses .
Eventually , you come into a small valley .
At its head stands a statue of a monk making the sign of a cube with his palms .
The statue has been daubed in blood and the head half chopped off .
The track continues towards a small village just visible on the horizon .
You land way below the fortress on some soft turf , a little shaken but nothing serious .
You can hear orders being shouted from above .
You suspect that you have been spotted .
You set off as fast as possible .
You march towards the Ore cavalry .
Each Ore has a miserable-looking attendant and as you move be* tween the horses , one of the Ores calls to you : 'You , hold this horse and give my boots a clean . '
You look up and ask what with .
`` Your clothes , ' replies the furious Ore. 'D'you think we keep you here to look smart ? '
You do as you are bid ; then he hands you a lance and tells you to keep up .
The cavalry walk their mounts forward in readiness for an attack .
All the attendants trot behind with various bundles .
You get to the scene of the battle exhausted You scamper down to the side of the river and look across .
The water does not seem too deep and there are no visible dangers ; only a few small fish .
You wade in up to your thighs .
Just then there is a disturbance in the water , one of the small fish flies out of the water and bites your elbow You keep to the smaller alleyways and make your way to the quayside .
You look at the two ships .
They look very similar , the one on the left is called the Gargu-Ran but you can see no name on the other ship .
There are no guards about and the main activity seems to be loading .
You wake up and find yourself lying on a rocky shelf overlooking a large green field .
Just then , the Bracelet glows ( mark a captured Citadel Wall on the Adventure Sheet ) .
There are many Elves milling around wearing brightly coloured clothing .
There is a buzz of excitement and a lot of high-pitched chatter .
There are stalls and games of skill and pipe-playing competitions taking place across the field .
You try to get up but find yourself held down by a thin cord .
It should be easy to break , but when you pull out your sword you find that you can not cut it .
You wake up when someone throws a bucket of water over you .
You find yourself among a group of thirty sitting in the forward hold - Your eyes begin to focus and you see the glow of the Bracelet on your wrist ( mark a captured Citadel Wall on the Adventure Sheet ) .
A Sea Ore stomps past and orders you all to assemble by the mizzen-mast .
The others trot off and you follow .
You wait for the arrival of the Captain .
He arrives and you recognize him : Cory-Ander , a criminal who escaped the gibbet in Zamarra a few years ago .
He paces up and down striking out with a whip at anyone within reach .
'You , ' he points his whip at the group , 'have the honour of fighting in Ostragoth 's Fleet of Conquest .
You are pressed for life or 25 years ( whichever is the shortest ) .
Now , form two lines . '
You are marched off to a long field surrounded by a high wooden fence .
The Goblin in charge marches up and down in front of you , shouting , 'You are the dregs , you need stiffening up .
I 've noticed you wavering in several recent attacks .
This group will be made an example of .
Now line up . '
You are made to line up .
You light another torch as a group of bats flutter around the top of the tunnel .
Looking up you see Blue Gems embedded in the roof of the tunnel .
You stretch up and hack , at them with your sword .
Throw a die for the number you chop out , but deduct 1 point from your stamina for each one .
If you continue , the tunnel leads down to a large cavern .
Everybody in the inn keeps very still and seems to be waiting for something to happen .
The Fire Demon suddenly disappears .
Then the deep booming voice gets louder and heavy steps sound until a small boy appears , wearing cut-down magician 's robes and a hat that 's far too big for him .
You point out the mistake to the one who 's losing out .
He looks very cross , pulls out a sword and the two begin to fight .
Then the unbelievable happens : they manage to stab and wound each other fatally .
You can only just hobble away to a nearby bush before a large war-chariot arrives and a black-cloaked figure walks about sniffing at your trail .
The figure sees the dead Ores , spits and curses them .
You trudge through the mountain valley breathing in the pungent smoke from the volcano .
Just before you climb up a small rise you unexpectedly come across the richly dressed figure of Snuffserk , King Elidor 's Chancellor .
He has a very worried look on his face as he approaches 'Thank Heavens you 've come .
They 've captured the Wizard Astragal and myself .
They will kill him if you do n't hand over the Torch .
They 've sent me to negotiate . '
He leads you to a small cave .
Astragal is chained up and a black-cloaked Mage Warrior is about to plunge a Death-Spell Dagger into him .
'Do n't do it .
Never mind our lives .
Go !
Get away ! '
screams the Wizard .
Snuffserk stands there waiting for you to hand over the T6rch .
You touch him on the shoulder , fearing an illusion , but one touch confirms that it is really he .
After several hours of sitting around , watching the well-disciplined regiments march past , you realize why they 're called the Irregulars .
There is no order at all .
Disputes flare up , fights break out , people stab each other .
Suddenly , however , with no word of command being issued , everybody gets up , picks up their own particular weapons and moves as a mass towards the siege lines .
You walk with the rabble and see a company of mounted Ores waiting to engage a force of Zamarran Knights who have just charged out of the Citadel .
The tactics are very simple .
The Irregulars charge at the Knights , slow them down and any that get through are dealt with by the Ores .
You walk along the forest path for many hours .
There seems to be no end to it .
So you stop to rest for a moment ( add 1 point to your stamina ) .
As soon as you enter the woods you feel an eerie foreboding .
The trees are twisted and gnarled , warped and hideous .
You feel that someone is watching you and glimpse furtive movements out Of the comer of your eye .
What strikes you as odd is the lack of any bird life or noise of any kind .
What strikes you as even stranger is the way the path you were following is now completely blocked both in front and behind .
Everything gets darker and the trees appear to grow visibly in front of you .
You decide to get out , so you strike at the branches with your sword but to no effect .
You get into a brightly coloured rowboat and the Dwarfs begin to pull at the oars .
They are very pleased at getting a customer .
The boat is old and leaks .
Now and then , one of the Dwarfs bails out the water with a green cup .
You are grateful for the rest .
You ask them of any dangers ahead to the north .
Skiff tells you of troops of Ores , soldiers and Goblins on raids of plunder but nothing else .
Suddenly , Sprig shouts 'Giant ! '
and both of them disappear over the side of the boat .
You turn around just as a giant hammer crashes into the boat .
The shallow river-path seems endless but eventually the trees are not so tall and begin to be more spaced out , and the sunlight begins to filter through to the ground .
You hear the sound of rushing water and stop at a deeper river that meets your tributary .
Across the river is a sturdy wooden bridge and just Discernible on the other side is a camp-fire with three figures sitting around it cooking something that smells very good .
You continue to climb until you reach the top of a rocky crag .
You see some high chalk cliffs ahead that are far too steep to climb when , suddenly , something leaps over the top and swoops down at you .
A metal claw gleams in the sunlight .
You pull out your sword but recognize an Elf .
He sees the sword and veers to one side .
He has a wing-like structure attached and stretched between his hands and feet that gives him great aerial prowess .
You attack but miss just as others appear over the top of the cliff .
You begin to run .
You know that you must try to stay with a crowd .
You look purposeful and head towards the group when , suddenly , a Goblin sergeant grabs you by the shoulder .
'Where do you think you 're going , scum ! '
You point to the field of soldiers .
'Those are elite troops , while you are scum and obviously new to this army .
( Curse these conscripts . )
you will come with me .
It 's the Irregulars for you .
Left .
.
.
Left . '
The small craft is difficult to control in the strong surf but you persevere ( deduct 2 points from your stamina ) .
Eventually , you land safely on the north-west side of the island .
You get to the clearing .
It opens out into a reedy plain , featureless but for the spiky reeds .
You are bitten mercilessly by particularly nasty marsh-flies ( deduct 1 point from your stamina ) .
They stop when they realize that they 've got a fight on their hands .
One of them places something in his mouth and you hear a high-pitched whistle .
Your horse begins to rear violently and throws you to the Ground .
You mount the horse , grab the reins and slip your feetinto the stirrups .
The horse begins to walk back in the direction it had come from .
Suddenly , the reins ensnare your hands and your feet stick in the stirrups .
You are powerless to do anything as the horse gallops off and eventually stops in the middle of a group of black-cloaked mounted figures who then begin to squawk with delight .
Your quest is over .
You have been caught by Jaxartes ' own Mage Warriors .
You are powerless to escape .
You can hear vague sounds of pursuit but you are grateful for the forest that keeps you hidden .
Suddenly , an arrow crashes through the leaves and implants itself in a tree-trunk .
You look at it as a smoky mist is released and then hear a scream , 'I have detected the One you seek .
Fire in that direction ! '
You are immediately showered by a mass of arrows .
The forest path becomes quite dark The tall trees tower over you , large dark birds flap overhead and small furry creatures scuttle about the lower branches .
Occasionally , you see twin shafts of flame that burn for a moment then go out .
Just then , the path skirts around a smooth mound .
You enter a bustling inn , full of men , women , Dwarfs , Elves and Goblins .
There is so much noise you have to shout your order to the man at the bar and you pay with a few iron coins .
You relax in a friendly atmosphere for several hours ( add 4 points to your stamina ) .
You are reawakened to the urgency of your quest by the glow of your Bracelet ( mark another breached Citadel Wall on the Adventure Sheet ) .
You do as you are directed and drop into a field .
You look back at the road leading to the main village gate .
Six black-cloaked riders are patrolling up and down .
You keep in low profile , cross streams back and forth , double-double-back , jump a few trees : in fact you do all the things that Captain Laski taught you in 'losing the scent ' exercises .
You get into the boat and the Goblin begins to whip the prisoners , getting them to row faster .
Half-way across to Karakum Island , the waves get very big and begin to wash over the boat .
You look across at the other boat and see that it is sinking The chained-up prisoners are all screaming .
The Goblins and the other guards abandon the boat and swim over to your vessel .
Your boat makes it safely across and you land in a small harbour .
The prisoners are marched off and you are told to join one of two lines of soldiers .
You run , but your feet stick in the marsh .
The Goblins catch you when you have sunk in up lo your knees .
You can not manoeuvre to fight properly .
Reduce your skill by 2 for this combat only .
You get to the grain and rice store in the central square of the village .
Two drunken Ores have smashed down the main door and are helping themselves , loading sacks into a cart They keep shouting that the goods have been requisitioned and that compensation will be paid .
They laugh among themselves that there are no fighting men left in the village to stop them .
One of the locals , an elderly man sees you and pleads for your help .
He offers 20 Gold Coins .
You ride in silence , far out beyond the siege lines to the north .
You know that you must get rid of the patrol so you send five of them on a sortie east .
The one remaining rider will not leave you when asked to .
She , it appears , is your bodyguard .
You make your way along the steps when suddenly , a Marsh Fiend , a creature covered in thick mud with a row of curved horns down its back and sharp thin claws on its fingers , leaps straight out of the swamp and stands in front of you , reaching out for your throat .
The woman leaps up the cliff-track .
She says nothing but when she reaches a certain point , she stops , sits cross-legged and shuts her eyes .
You stand next to her , not knowing what to do .
Eventually she opens her eyes , points to you and indicates a path that goes back up and along the clifftop .
She then smoothes out a patch in the dusty ground and draws a tent with an insignia of Vulture 's Wings .
You try to talk to her but she goes back into a trance .
You leave her there and take the route she advised , trudging along the cliff .
You trudge along the reedy plain .
You walk for many hours on a rough northerly heading with only the rather vicious marsh-flies to relieve the boredom The temperature continues to rise steadily , far beyond the limits of human tolerance .
Lying on the near-molten floor of the tunnel , you fail to regain consciousness .
Your adventure ends here .
Space !
You have escaped from the dungeon and have emerged into cool night air .
Slowly you survey the landscape , your mind filled with wonder at the space all around .
You appear to be standing in an open field in which stones have been fixed in regular rows .
Some lie down flat on the ground and some are standing up .
To your left , near the edge of this field , is a large building with a tall , pointed roof .
On the other side , to the right , is a wood , and a path Leads straight into the wood from where you are now .
Overhead , a huge white orb hangs in the sky giving some light , but this light dwindles when great smoky masses drift across in front of it .
You are overawed by your new environment .
The villagers watch wide-eyed as their champion drops to the ground .
Then anger takes over .
'Rog is dead ! '
cries a voice .
'Let 's get that thing that done it ! '
One of them nips back into the hut and produces a pitchfork .
'Quick ! '
comes a gruff voice from behind you .
'We must leave quickly .
Come with me ! '
The Half-Ore is beckoning you to follow him out of the village .
You look again at the villagers and decide that his suggestion is a sensible one .
The two of you continue , pursued by the villagers , until you reach The edge of Coven , where they stop and watch you leave , jeering and shaking their fists .
Following the Jabberwing 's advice , you set off northwards .
You pause on top of a hillock and survey the area .
In the distance to your right you can see a great forest and straight ahead a river cuts through the landscape like a gaping wound .
You head on and , a short distance after you have left the hillock , another trail joins yours from the right .
You follow the river up the valley until you reach a point where it comes out of a cave in the side of the hill .
There is no path into the cave , just the river .
You pick your way along the river-bank , following it downstream .
The going is not easy .
At one point you must climb carefully down a rocky cliff , where the river passes over a waterfall .
Eventually you reach a calm pool where the waters slow and spread over a wide expanse .
Steam rises lazily from the pungent water and you halt in your tracks as the smell - now stronger than ever - reaches you .
Through the steamy mist you catch a glimpse of a creature further along the bank .
It stands tall on four legs and is drinking contentedly from the foul waters .
You creep closer , keeping hidden in the bushes .
The creature stands on long , cloven feet .
Its skin is covered in tough scales and its tail ends in a spiky ball .
Its head is sleek and serpent-like , with a long , thin tongue that darts in and out as it drinks from the river .
You turn angrily towards the peasants as a stone hits you on the shoulder .
Lose 1 stamina point .
The men and women are yelling at you , trying to get you off their land .
But you are furious and rush towards them through the crops .
They beat a retreat , keeping their distance , and hurl more stones .
Again you charge forward , again they retreat and again comes the hail of stones .
This time another stone hits you in the chest .
Lose another stamina point .
After two more charges , you realize that your efforts are futile .
They will always be able to move faster than you through the crops , as your greater bulk is slowing you down .
You eventually turn from them and return to the path .
They follow you , once more jeering and shouting , until you have left their field and are well out of range of their stones .
Your foot slides back over the edge of the bridge , and you tumble through the air towards the river below !
You shudder with horror at the thought of landing in the filthy waters .
But fate is kind to you .
Before you reach the water , your head cracks hard against a protruding rock .
You are senseless when you hit the river and you never know the unpleasantness of your death in the filthy stream that is the Bilgewater .
Inside the hut is a counter and from behind the counter someone passes you a bowl full of liquid .
The bemused villagers watch as you cup the bowl , sniff the liquid , and finally pour it down your throat .
The taste is rough and your stomach seems to be undecided whether or no t to heave the ale back up again .
But instead it decides on a hiccup followed by a great throaty belch which delights the villagers .
They laugh at your bewildered expression and the bowl is once more filled up for you to drink again .
Several bowls later you are feeling decidedly light-headed .
The villagers eventually leave the hut and you stagger back out on to the street to continue your journey .
The going becomes a little steeper and the river splashes faster over its rocky bed .
Ahead you can see that it seems to disappear over a ledge and , when you get closer , you see that the river plunges over a tall waterfall and crashes into a natural pond far below , before continuing along a narrower stream through a gully carved in the rock .
The effect is quite spectacular , but it presents a problem to you .
How do you get down ?
Following the path along the river-bank is impossible .
You will have to continue through the undergrowth .
He looks deep into your eyes for several moments .
Eventually he grunts and stands aside to let you through into the guardroom .
The place is dirty , and smells of rancid ale and stale food .
Across the room is another door , This one is made of metal and has a small barred viewing-panel at eye-level .
Through this panel you can see steps leading upwards .
But while you gaze at the door , you are not watching what the guard is doing .
Suddenly you feel a heavy blow on the back of your head .
You slump to your knees , dazed by the impact , and turn to see the guard advancing towards you holding a heavy club .
You pick your way through the woods towards the shaded area .
The thick vegetation makes it impossible for you to travel in a straight line and you find yourself turning this way and that to pick out the easiest route .
Eventually you reach the shadowy patch and discover to your disappointment that it is a tight thicket of tall Heavenstip trees , their leaves desperately thirsting for the sunlight from above .
You turn back towards the path .
But where is it ?
You have no way of knowing which way you have come from and your eyes scan the wood for familiar signs .
There are none .
Acting on a hunch , you finally set off towards the spot where - you hope - you left the path .
The riverside is a place of great natural beauty .
At least , it seems to be natural , but there is always the possibility that someone has planted the colourful plants in their beds along the banks of the river .
A tall green-stemmed reed is topped with coiled trumpets of purple flowers which hang down facing the river .
These flowers are so beautiful that they have a hypnotic effect on the fish of the river , which are attracted to the water beneath the reeds and can be seen swimming beneath them .
Another blue-stemmed plant has no flowers but its glistening colour is quite remarkable and it has a strong herbal odour .
Yet another plant has leaves which are perfect circles , red in colour .
As you watch , one of the leaves drops into the river .
The leaf seems to have some purifying effect : as soon as it touches the water , all cloudiness is gone from the area around the leaf ; the water becomes crystal-clear until disturbed by the flow of the current .
Another plant , out of reach in the water , has delicate flowers of silver .
As the wind blows , the flowers whistle and tinkle together with an eerie , calming sound which makes you feel quite relaxed .
You may , if you wish , gather a few of one of these types of plant before you leave .
On the way out of the village , you pass more huts and more of the villagers , who rush across the road to avoid you .
Ahead of you is a figure slumped face down on the ground .
When you get closer you can see that it is a dark-skinned Half-Ore , and that it is dead .
There are all kinds of birds and some rabbits to be found in the wood .
To catch some food , you must Test your Luck successfully .
If you are Lucky , you will catch a small animal for 2 stamina points of nourishment .
If you are Unlucky , you will not .
You may try as many times as you like , but you may not gain more than 4 stamina points in total .
The path continues through the undergrowth , but the going becomes more difficult .
You soon find it difficult to tell which way the path leads , as the whole area is so overgrown .
You peer through the woods ahead and there seems to be little of interest , although an area to your left seems to be unnaturally dark .
This could just be a cluster of broad-leaved trees blocking out the light , or it could be something else .
You stumble down the rocky bank and splash into the river .
The dirty water feels greasy to the touch and the stench is overwhelming .
You force your way forward against the fast flowing current , deeper and deeper into rh* darkness of the cave .
Your presence is noted by a host of fish and other animals living in the Bilgewater .
Most are not capable of harming you .
But there is one river creature who thrives in vile waters .
Known as the Devil 's Locks , it is a huge burrowing creature with long stinging tentacles .
In rivers it will bury its body in crevices , allowing its deadly tentacles to waft in the current .
The effect is rather like seeing a long-haired disembodied head lying on the bed of the river ( hence the name ) .
You , of course can see nothing .
Nor do you know anything of the terrible creature .
The last things you remember are soft fibres wrapping themselves around your leg and a sharp pain as the first sting releases its quick-acting poison .
.
.
As you search through the woods on your seemingly hopeless task , the ship in the sky is becoming larger .
It is coming your way !
You begin to thrash about in frustration , but just then you see what you are looking for .
Ahead of you - appearing much too obvious now you have spotted it - is a tall , slender tree , bent back on itself - a Galleykeep hunting trap !
You pick yourself up and stare at the device .
The tree , a Whipwood , has been shaved of its branches .
Its tip is held taut by a rope which ends in a ring .
You follow the path .
After a long trek southwards , the trail sweeps round to the east .
It begins to widen into a well-used road just as you reach the outskirts of a dusty village .
On your left you pass a run-dowri ' building which could prove a useful place of shelter for you .
But a growing commotion ahead brings your attention back to the road .
A number of villagers are beginning to bar the road .
As you step forward , one picks up a stone and hurls it at you .
It : lands close by your foot .
A second villager throws another stone , and this one bounces off your chesti Lose 1 stamina point for the painful blow .
They cheer and grab more stones to throw at you .
It seems you are not welcome here and you decide to turn back before you are hit again .
As you settle down to sleep in the run-down old building , you reflect on the words of the witches You must find for them Sculliweed roots , from a plant you have never seen before .
However , task does seem to arouse your interest and you are aware that something of yourself is developing Your mind goes back to the blind wizard in the room and how you would never have been able to undertake a task such as this if you now felt as you did then .
It is almost as if you are developing wisdom ' .
This notion occupies your thoughts and you drop into a disturbed sleep .
A trail has been cut through the bulrushes .
Your heavy feet splash along the marshy trail until you reach a clearing .
The going seems a little more solid and you can see footprints - not human footprints , but the large webbed footprints of some unknown creature .
From the clearing there are two ways on , one to the north and one to the north-east .
You follow the path through the woods until you reach a clearing .
Here there is a small pond .
The water is not stagnant , as a small stream leads from it deeper into the woods , and it is a favourite watering-hole for the woodland birds , although they flit igh up into the branches when you arrive .
The water shines with a silver sheen and you can see quite clearly the reflections of the tree-tops and clouds .
Will you rest here beside the pond and perhaps drink from it ?
You ignore the peasants and sit down in the field .
They continue their yelling and the stones still land close by , but you are hungry 1 .
You grab an ear of com and put the whole thing in your mouth .
The peasants dare not come too close to you , but they will keep up their barrage of stones until you leave their field .
You follow the trail as it winds through the reeds .
More than once a slippery Swampsnake slithers across your path , but thankfully they have no interest in you .
Several types of croaking noises can be heard , but the one that worries you the most is a loud , booming croak which sounds more like a throaty belch .
This particular sound is regular , and I similar croaks seem to echo it from various parts of the marsh .
Ahead of you , the trail is opening up as it [ reaches a river-bank , where a wealth of colourful .plants line the river .
But as you stand and watch the Iriver flowing past , you notice a pair of eyes in the treeds !
Two large , bulbous eyes blink slowly as you stare at them .
When the owner of the eyes realizes you have seen him , he turns and you can see a bulky , rough-skinned shape - rather like a huge stone - shuffle off noisily into the reeds .
The path takes you along towards the trees .
You pass a sign on the edge of the forest , which reads 'Knot Oak Wood ' .
Once in the wood , the going is more difficult as the light is obscured by the tall Trees .
As you follow the trail , the vegetation changes .
The flat grassland begins to be replaced by taller reeds .
The going underfoot becomes muddier , until eventually you reach an area where bulrushes tower over your head .
